---
layout: post
title: Using Solr with Sunspot on Heroku
id: using-solr-and-sunspot-on-heroku
keywords: solr, sunspot, heroku, ruby
published: false
---

Full-Text Search, or FTS, is a system where you extract out the terms you want to search so that you can search them at a much faster speed. Databases like "MySQL":http://lineofthought.com/tools/mysql and "PostgreSQL":http://lineofthought.com/tools/postgres have an option to search full text, but it is difficult to maintain or change, and very limited in scope. "Solr":http://lineofthought.com/tools/solr with "Sunspot":http://lineofthought.com/tools/sunspot 

h3. Why Would I Use Full Text Search?

Whenever you query a relational database with a @LIKE@ statement, you're adding a lot of work to your database. If you start a search with a @%@, for example, the database server will need to read through every single row in your database and check for the column you are searching. FTS searches scan through a generated list of keywords from all fields you want to search through. This enables FTS to be much much faster in some cases. Here's a few situations where you could use FTS:

* Site wide search within a given table. For instance searching all Tweets on Twitter.
* Autocomplete for a field.
* Search across multiple fields on a given table.
* Search across multiple fields on multiple tables.

h3. Solr Integration for a Rails Site

Solr runs as a standalone process. If you have your own server setup, you could run Solr on it as well, or for "Heroku":http://lineofthought.com/tools/heroku, they have a few options to get you started:
* 250,000 documents for $20.00
* 750,000 documents for $69.00
* 1,750,000 documents for $169.00
* 5,000,000 documents for $499.00



h3. Autocomplete

{% highlight ruby %}
searchable do
  text :title, :default_boost => 2
  string :lower_title do
    title.downcase
  end
  string :url
  text :description

  boolean :featured
  boost { featured? ? 2.0 : 1.0 }
end
handle_asynchronously :solr_index
{% endhighlight %}

h3. More stuff

More code here.